VIRT-WHO(8)                 System Manager's Manual                VIRT-WHO(8)

NAME
       virt-who  - Agent for reporting virtual guest IDs to Subscription Asset
       Manager, Satellite 6, or Satellite 5.

SYNOPSIS
       virt-who [-d] [-i INTERVAL] [-o]

OPTIONS
       -h, --help
              show this help message and exit

       -d, --debug
              Enable debugging output

       -o, --one-shot
              Send the list of guest IDs and exit immediately

       -i INTERVAL, --interval=INTERVAL
              Acquire and send guest information each  N  seconds;  note  that
              this option is recommendation only, requested interval might not
              been honoured and the actual interval might be longer or shorter
              depending on backend that is used.

       -p, --print
              Print  the  host/guests  association  in JSON format to standard
              output

       -c, --config
              Use configuration file  directly  (will  override  configuration
              from  other  files. 'global' and 'default' sections are not read
              in files passed in via this  option,  and  are  only  read  from
              /etc/virt-who.conf).  Can  be used multiple times. See virt-who-
              config(5) for details about configuration file format.

ENVIRONMENT
       virt-who also reads environmental variables. They have the same name as
       command line arguments but upper-cased, with underscore instead of dash
       and prefixed with VIRTWHO_ (e.g. VIRTWHO_ONE_SHOT). Empty variables are
       considered  as  disabled, non-empty as enabled. Their use is deprecated
       and will be ignored in the next major release.

USAGE
   MODE
       virt-who has three modes how it can run:

       1. one-shot mode
              # virt-who -o

              In this mode virt-who just sends the host to  guest  association
              to the server once and then exits.

       2. interval mode
              # virt-who -i INTERVAL

              This  is default mode. virt-who will listen to change events (if
              available) or do a polling with given interval,  and  will  send
              the  host  to  guest  association  when  it changes. The default
              polling interval is 3600 seconds and can be  changed  using  "-i
              INTERVAL" (in seconds).

       3. print mode
              # virt-who -p

              This mode is similar to oneshot mode but the host to guest asso‐
              ciation is not send to server, but printed  to  standard  output
              instead.

LOGGING
       virt-who  always writes error output to file /var/log/rhsm/rhsm.log. It
       also writes the same output to standard error output when started  from
       command line.

       virt-who  can  be  started  with  option "-d" in all modes and with all
       backends. This option will enable verbose output with more information.

SECURITY
       Virt-who may present security concerns in  some  scenarios  because  it
       needs  access to every hypervisor in the environment. To minimize secu‐
       rity risk, virt-who is a network client, not a  server.  It  only  does
       outbound  connections to find and register new hypervisors and does not
       need access to any virtual machines. To  further  reduce  risk,  deploy
       virt-who  in  a  small  virtual machine with a minimal installation and
       lock it down from any unsolicited inbound network connections.

       Here is a list of ports that need to be open for different hypervisors:

           VMWare ESX/vCenter: 443/tcp
           Hyper-V: 5985/tcp
           RHEV-M: 443/tcp or 8443/tcp (depending on version)
           XenServer: 443/tcp
           libvirt: depending on transport type, default (for  remote  connec‐
       tions) is qemu over ssh on port 22
           local libvirt uses a local connection and doesn't need an open port
           kubevirt: 8443/tcp
           Nutanix AHV: 9440/tcp

       virt-who  also  needs  to  have  access  to Subscription Asset Manager,
       Satellite 5, or Satellite 6. Default port is  443/tcp.  All  the  ports
       might be changed by system administrators.

       Using  the  same network for machine running virt-who as for hypervisor
       management software instead of production VM networks is suggested.

AUTHOR
       Radek Novacek <rnovacek at redhat dot com>

virt-who                          April 2016                       VIRT-WHO(8)
